Let's retrieve the values the user might have set up, let's make our option usable. In the
visual.ts file,
it'll all start by me creating a new interface here.
I'll name this interface barChartSettings because that is what it's about,
I want to enable the user to change some settings.
We only have one setting here but of course you could add more
and it's enableAxis and in there, we will have a show property which is a boolean and that's just
what we set up,
right,
that is what we set up in our capabilities.json file,
we have a show property which's type is a boolean.
So now we have a representation of that in this interface,
this is not strictly required but again it's a good practice so that we have our own types we can use
in the end
and now we can use these settings. I'll start using it here in my visual transform function, at the top
where I define my default data info, here I'll
also define my default settings and this will be of type bar chart settings
of course, this interface we just created and I will assign a Javascript object here where I have
enableAxis which in turn is a Javascript object where I set show to false because and that's just my default,
you may change this, by default
I won't show the axis
and of course you could set this to true to show it, right now
it won't have any effect though.
So that is getting or setting up the default settings but of course, we want to get the settings the user
entered
and we can get this also in the visual transform function because just like the user enters data which
we handle here, the options are also part of the user input.
So after checking the data is there and so on and maybe after setting up the color but before the for loop
here, maybe that's a good place to extract the options the user set up.
So we could create a new variable, barChartSettings and set this then equal or first of all to type
bar chart settings and set it
equal to the extracted settings and now for that
I will create a helper method because people actually need to go through all the possible settings and
retrieve the one we're looking for.
So in the end, we will have an object here and in this object, we obviously will have our enableAxis property
which is an object but show as I mentioned will then be retrieved from some helper method.
Now I'll create this helper method in this file too above visual transform maybe, I'll name it get option
value, the name is totally up to you.
It's a generic type function here because I don't care about which type of option it is,
if it's a boolean, a string, whatever
and here I'll have all my objects. Object means options the user can set basically, that is of type data view
object, a type defined by Power BI visual tools. I'll then have the object name I'm looking for
because with get option value, I want to get one specific option, the enableAxis here,
this should be a reusable function which allows me to easily get access to the option I'm looking for.
I'll also be able to pass a property name which is a string and the default value which of course is
of our generic type
because again, this function should be usable for any type of option
and I will return that generic type in the end,
the data I got in the end, the option setting.
So that's my function.
Now we can
first of all check if we do have any objects because if we don't, then we don't need to go any further,
no options were set up, we can't extract anything. As a next step,
I want to get my object from all the objects, so from all these options objects you could say which matches
the object name I was looking for.
So if I was looking for enableAxis, this should now be stored,
this means the object with the value the user set and so on should now be stored in this object
variable here. As a next step,
I want to check if this is set,
so it is null if we didn't get it
otherwise it is a Javascript object
and now I want to extract the specific property I'm looking for, the show property in our case.
Remember that is what I set up here.
So here in my object, I want to extract the property I'm looking for, it will be of type T, a generic type
again because I don't care about the specific type
and then I will cast this object and then access my property name there. This now gives me the property
I'm looking for
and this again could be null,
so I check if property is not equal to undefined to be precise.
So if we did find it and if I did find it, then I want to return the property
otherwise if any of these if statements fails, I want to return the default value which we passed to
this function.
So that's my helper function
and now I can use the helper function down here where I want to assign a value to show, I can now call
get option value
and here I want to pass the array of options or of objects as they are called here, then the property I'm
looking for and my default setting of course and the option I'm looking, I forgot that. So get option
value,
I'm looking for a boolean in this use case here,
keep in mind it's a generic function because in other options, we might be looking for a string or something
like that
and here, I can then reach out to my objects and what are my objects? We need to retrieve these,
so let's do that first before assigning it here. I can get my array of objects by accessing my data views,
whoops, not values, data views, here
the first dataset we got is limited to one, keep that in mind
and then here, on the metadata, a property provided by Power BI, on the metadata,
I can now retrieve my objects
and these are just these options object I was referring to.
So now I got objects which I passed to this helper method or helper function it is, then as a string
I'm looking for enableAxis, the name you set up here and then we want to retrieve show, this name here.
So we do this by now as a third argument pass another string, show,
that's the property name and our default setting, well we get the default settings object defined up here.
So it's on this default settings enableAxis show property that I want to extract if we don't find
a user setting, that would be the false case here, that we don't show an axis.
With that we're extracting the user value,
now we can start using it. For that in the value I returned here,
I need to return my settings too,
so let's adjust our bar chart view map model to also pass some settings of type bar chart settings
here.
With that in place, we right now see here's an issue, that should be our default settings here
and at the very end of this visual transform function, here of course, I also want to set my settings
and here, I simply want to return my bar chart settings which we derived a few seconds ago here.
Now we can use it in the update method as always because there is where we want to show or not show
this axis.
How can we do that?
Well first of all I want to create a new property in the class, private barChartSettings which will
be a type of bar chart settings, like that, I'll initialize it here right at the start of the update method,
here where I retrieve height and width too
even before I do this,
I'll set this bar chart settings equal to transformed data settings.
It now has the settings properties since that is what we defined
and now with that settings extracted here, we can use it here where we define the height to give extra
room for the axis.
Well we don't want to do that if we don't want to show one, right, so we can check if this bar chart
settings enableAxis show if that is true, in which case I want to do my height adjustment here,
in other cases I won't do it.
So by doing this simple trick here, this simple code line here, I'm making sure that the axis only has
room if enableAxis show is set to true otherwise
we don't execute that line
and then there is no room to display the axis.
So that is the thing I want to do here,
however strangely enough, if I now save this and reload my code here, we don't see the axis, that makes
sense because by default, we set it to false
but I still don't have an option here to change my axis because there's one tiny piece of code
missing, one function, one method
we actually have to implement to allow Power BI to pass our own options to our code.
Let's do this in the next lecture.